# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

  console.rb

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

  properties.sql

Q3. In console.rb, which lines modify the database?

  13, 22, 31, 33

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

  so we don't create a potential mismatch with the database side id / wait for the unique id from the database

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

  inside of the save method of the Property class. line 32 - the exec_prepared method returns a hash that contains an id generated from the database (line 29 - RETURNING id) when the sql query is sent. The id is then assigned to the instance variable @id.

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

  so it won't be assigned an id until an id is returned from the database.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

  when using methods like finding or deleting_all it isn't necessary to call it on a instance of a class as they are more blanket commands.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

  an array of hashes. the id is accessed by calling the first index of the array (to access the hash) and then the key 'id' from the hash.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

  an int and a string respectively  

Q11. What are their return values?

  instances of the property class with a hash passed in as their arguments from the database.
